docs/annotate.rst, before:

Annotate Data and Filter using Annotations
==========================================

In this section, we show various types of annotations supported in
OMERO and how to use them.

Description
-----------

We will show:

-  How to annotate Images, Datasets and Projects with:

   -  Tags

   -  Key-Value Pairs

   -  File Attachments

   -  Ratings

-  How to filter thumbnails in the central pane of OMERO.web for:

   -  Tags

   -  Key-Value Pairs

   -  Ratings

Setup
-----

-  The data used are from the `siRNAi-HeLa <https://downloads.openmicroscopy.org/images/DV/siRNAi-HeLa>`_ folder.

-  The tags and ratings were added manually, then propagated for all users on the OMERO.server using the script `copy_tags_ratings.py <https://github.com/ome/training-scripts/blob/master/maintenance/scripts/copy_tags_ratings.py>`_.

-  The Key-Value Pairs were added to the images in the siRNAi-HeLa Dataset for all users using the script `key_value_pairs.py <https://github.com/ome/training-scripts/blob/master/maintenance/scripts/key_value_pairs.py>`_.

Step-by-step
------------

#. Open a browser and enter the provided URL

#. Connect using the provided credentials

#. Let’s add annotations to Images. We will add Tags to indicate Metaphase stages of these cells.

   - Select one or more Images in the siRNAi-HeLa Dataset of cells which appear to be in metaphase.

   - Choose the Tag option in the right-hand ``General`` tab and click ``[ + ]`` to launch the Tag dialog.

   - Choose the existing Metaphase from the list of Tags (to filter, type above the list).

   - Click ``>`` to move it to the right column, then click ``OK``.

#. Let’s now add Key-Value Pairs

   - Select an Image from the Dataset and in the right-hand pane in ``General`` tab, click the harmonica Key-Value Pairs.
   
      |image0|

      |image1|

   - The Key-Value Pairs allow you to add lab-book-like additional metadata for the Image. These Key-Value Pairs are also specifically searchable. See :doc:`search-omero`.

#. It is also possible to add Comment, Attachment and Rating to selected Images in the right-hand pane in the ``General`` tab.

#. Filter using annotations

   - Images can also be filtered by Name, Tag, Key-Value pairs or Rating in the centre pane, using the ``Add filter`` chooser above the thumbnails.

   - For example, choose ``Tag`` and then select ``Metaphase`` from the list of Tags to show the images we tagged earlier.

   - Or choose to filter by Key-Values. You can then filter by a particular Key. If you select a Key where all the
     values are numbers, you can filter for those that are greater than, less than or equal to a threshold value.

      |image3|

   - Review the filtered Images, choose a favourite Image and under the ``Ratings`` section in the right-hand pane, click on the 5th star to add a rating of 5
   
      |image2|

   - Now we can remove the filtering by Tag and instead filter by Rating of 5 to show only our favourite images.

.. |image0| image:: images/annotate1.png
   :width: 3.59375in
   :height: 0.36458in
.. |image1| image:: images/annotate2.png
   :width: 3.54167in
   :height: 1.91667in
.. |image2| image:: images/annotate3.png
   :width: 2.93977in
   :height: 0.91146in
.. |image3| image:: images/annotate4.png

Commit message:

Add description of File Annotation addition

docs/annotate.rst, after:

Annotate Data and Filter using Annotations
==========================================

In this section, we show various types of annotations supported in
OMERO and how to use them.

Description
-----------

We will show:

-  How to annotate Images, Datasets and Projects with:

   -  Tags

   -  Key-Value Pairs

   -  File Attachments

   -  Ratings

-  How to filter thumbnails in the central pane of OMERO.web for:

   -  Tags

   -  Key-Value Pairs

   -  Ratings

Setup
-----

-  The data used are from the `siRNAi-HeLa <https://downloads.openmicroscopy.org/images/DV/siRNAi-HeLa>`_ folder.

-  The tags and ratings were added manually, then propagated for all users on the OMERO.server using the script `copy_tags_ratings.py <https://github.com/ome/training-scripts/blob/master/maintenance/scripts/copy_tags_ratings.py>`_.

-  The Key-Value Pairs were added to the images in the siRNAi-HeLa Dataset for all users using the script `key_value_pairs.py <https://github.com/ome/training-scripts/blob/master/maintenance/scripts/key_value_pairs.py>`_.

Step-by-step
------------

#. Open a browser and enter the provided URL

#. Connect using the provided credentials

#. Let us add annotations to Images.

#. Note that you can add annotations using this interface to any object (or more of them) which you can select in the left-hand side tree or central pane, this means ``Project``, ``Dataset``, ``Image``, ``Screen``, ``Plate`` and ``Well``.

#. First, we will add Tags to indicate Metaphase stages of these cells.

   - Select one or more Images in the siRNAi-HeLa Dataset of cells which appear to be in metaphase.

   - Choose the Tag option in the right-hand ``General`` tab and click ``[ + ]`` to launch the Tag dialog.

   - Choose the existing Metaphase from the list of Tags (to filter, type above the list).

   - Click ``>`` to move it to the right column, then click ``OK``.

#. Let us now add Key-Value Pairs

   - Select an Image from the Dataset and in the right-hand pane in ``General`` tab, click the harmonica Key-Value Pairs.
   
      |image0|

      |image1|

   - The Key-Value Pairs allow you to add lab-book-like additional metadata for the Image. These Key-Value Pairs are also specifically searchable. See :doc:`search-omero`.

#. For adding of File Attachments:

   - Select one or more objects in the left-hand side tree, such as ``Dataset`` or ``Image``.
   - Expand the ``Attachments`` harmonica in the right-hand pane. 
   - Click the plus button.

      |image1b|

   - You can attach any type of file using this function. If you select a file from your local hierarchy, the feature will upload that file to the OMERO.server and save it there. The content of ``.pdf``, ``CSV`` and plain text files is also searchable in OMERO.

#. You can also add Comments, and Rating to selected objects - follow analogous steps to the ones descirbed above for Tags, Key-Value pairs and File Attachments.

#. Filter using annotations

   - Images can also be filtered by Name, Tag, Key-Value pairs or Rating in the centre pane, using the ``Add filter`` chooser above the thumbnails.

   - For example, choose ``Tag`` and then select ``Metaphase`` from the list of Tags to show the images we tagged earlier.

   - Or choose to filter by Key-Values. You can then filter by a particular Key. If you select a Key where all the
     values are numbers, you can filter for those that are greater than, less than or equal to a threshold value.

      |image3|

   - Review the filtered Images, choose a favourite Image and under the ``Ratings`` section in the right-hand pane, click on the 5th star to add a rating of 5
   
      |image2|

   - Now we can remove the filtering by Tag and instead filter by Rating of 5 to show only our favourite images.

.. |image0| image:: images/annotate1.png
   :width: 3.59375in
   :height: 0.36458in
.. |image1| image:: images/annotate2.png
   :width: 3.54167in
   :height: 1.91667in
.. |image1b| image:: images/annotate1b.png
   :width: 3.54167in
.. |image2| image:: images/annotate3.png
   :width: 2.93977in
   :height: 0.91146in
.. |image3| image:: images/annotate4.png
